# Data Ownership Policy

## User home directories  

CCR provides each cluster user with a home directory ``/user/username`` and a 10GB quota.  The data contained in the home directory is owned by the user and access to these files is under the control of the user only.

!!! Note
    We can not provide anyone with access to the home directory of another user without the user's express written consent  


## Shared project directories & global scratch directories  

These directories are accessible on all CCR servers by only your group.  Anyone in the group, by default, has access to all the files in these shared group directories, unless explicitly changed by the file owner.  Please be aware that any data in the group's project or global scratch directories is ultimately owned by the group's principal investigator (PI) or faculty group lead, regardless of the unix ownership permissions set on the file or directory.  

**We strongly encourage PIs to ask their group members to store files in these shared spaces so when they leave the university, the PI still has access to the data generated by the student while working with the group.**  

See these links for additional policy information from the University at Buffalo:  
[Protecting intellectual property](https://www.buffalo.edu/research/research-services/commercialization/protecting-your-ip.html)  
[UBIT account policy](https://www.buffalo.edu/administrative-services/policy1/ub-policy-lib/ubitname-account.html)  
[UBIT Computer and Network Use policy](https://www.buffalo.edu/administrative-services/policy1/ub-policy-lib/computer-network-use.html)  


## Roswell Park Project Directories  

RPCCC project space located in ``/projects/rpci`` is managed by RPCCC IT staff.  Please contact them for information on internal allocations/quotas and other policies related to data retention and data ownership.  


## Industry Cluster Client Data  

There should be one designated company employee responsible for management of the group's project and allocations for resources at CCR.  That user will be deemed the "owner" of the data on the systems.  Should this employee leave the company, CCR should be notified so that the CCR account can be removed and another employee can be made data owner and project manager.  Ultimately, all data generated under the company's account is owned by the company, not the individual employee.  


## Lake Effect Research Cloud Data  

As with the data in the project directories, ultimately the data stored on virtual machines in the research cloud is owned by the project PI or faculty group lead.
