# Getting access to CCR

CCR offers a variety of resources for researchers to use in their own projects.
To get started with CCR resources you need the following:

- [UB or Roswell Park VPN](#vpn-access)
- [A CCR user account](#creating-a-ccr-user-account)
- [Enable Two Factor Authentication](#enable-two-factor-authentication)
- [An active allocation to the resources you want to use](#allocation-requests)

## VPN Access

Access to all CCR resources, including creating accounts is restricted to UB
and Roswell Park networks. You must be either on campus or connected to
[UBVPN](https://www.buffalo.edu/ubit/service-guides/connecting/vpn.html) or
Roswell Park VPN. For more information on connecting to UBVPN [see here](https://www.buffalo.edu/ubit/service-guides/connecting/vpn/computer.html).
If you do not have a UBIT account or a Roswell Park user account please
[contact CCR Help](help.md) to inquire about VPN access.

## Creating a CCR user account

CCR resources are freely available to the UB and Roswell Park research
communities. You must create an individual CCR account and enable two factor
authentication if you wish to access any CCR resources. Please note that CCR
user accounts are separate from your UBIT or Roswell Park accounts.

A CCR user account can be created quickly and easily by [by filling out the
form here](https://idm.ccr.buffalo.edu/signup) using your UB or Roswell Park
email address. Once your account is created you will need to verify your email
address and enable two factor authentication.

## Enable Two Factor Authentication

CCR requires all user accounts to have two factor authentication enabled. We
support OTP, which stands for One-Time Passcodes and is a common form of two
factor authentication (2FA). OTP is also known as app based authentication,
software tokens, or soft tokens where an app on your phone will generate unique
numeric passcodes as a second factor to provide increased account security.

To enable two factor authentication on your account, follow these easy steps:

1. Install an authenticator app on your phone. Authentication apps like Authy,
   Google Authenticator, and Duo are supported. We recommend Duo as it's also used by UBIT.

2. Login to CCR IDM portal [here](https://idm.ccr.buffalo.edu/) and click on
   [OTP Tokens](https://idm.ccr.buffalo.edu/otp) in the side menu.

3. Click on the "New Token" button and follow the directions to scan the QR
   code using your authenticator app. Enter the six digit passcode generated by the app.

For more details on two factor authentication [see here](2fa.md).

!!! Warning "Faculty accounts and PI status"
    If you are a Faculty member or PI, an additional step is required after
    you have enabled 2FA. You will also need to login to ColdFront
    and request that your account be upgraded to "PI Status" so you can request
    allocations. Go to your user profile
    [here](https://coldfront-test.ccr.buffalo.edu/user/user-profile/) and click
    on the `Upgrade Account` button.

## Allocation Requests

Access to CCR resources is managed using allocations. ColdFront is the
allocations management system CCR uses to manage resource allocations for the
entire center. In order to access CCR resources you must be on an active
allocation.

- __Faculty members__ (Principal investigators) can use
  [ColdFront](https://coldfront.ccr.buffalo.edu) to create projects, add group
  members, and request allocations to resources.  Once an allocation is
  activated, users on that allocation will be able to access the resource.
  More details about ColdFront can be found [here](portals/coldfront.md#request-an-allocation).

- __Students and postdocs__ can contact the faculty member (PI) who is
  sponsoring your account to request that they add you to their project and
  allocations.

- __External Collaborators__ the faculty member you're working with needs to
  request a CCR account and VPN access by [contacting CCR Help](help.md)

- __Industry customers__ please [contact CCR Help](help.md) to request access.  

## Available Resources  

There are many resources available for use at CCR.  These are listed in alphabetical order in ColdFront.  If after reading through these descriptions you are still unsure about which resource you should be requesting an allocation for, please [contact CCR Help](help.md).  The list of available resources includes:  

Clusters - [More Info on HPC](hpc/clusters.md)  
:    **UB-HPC academic partitions** - These partitions in the UB-HPC cluster are available to all UB faculty, their students & collaborators.  This is the primary resource utilized at CCR.  Free for UB faculty groups to use.    
:    **Industry Cluster Partition** - Use of this partition in the UB-HPC cluster is restricted to business partners or faculty with a business use case.  Please provide a justification of this use case when requesting the allocation.  Charges are based on a Cooperative Use Agreement signed between the company and UB.    
:    **Faculty cluster partitions** - The faculty cluster is made up of partitions of nodes purchased by faculty members or research groups.  These are not publicly available.  You will only see them in your list of resources to request allocations for if you're the owner or the owner has allowed CCR to share the access with you.  

Research Cloud (LakeEffect) - [More Info on LakeEffect](cloud/lake-effect.md)  
:    **LakeEffect Cloud** - on-premise cloud infrastructure for research projects.  This is an infrastructure-as-a-service system meaning the faculty group buys compute time in the CCR cloud and completely controls the servers in their project.  Pricing structure for the research cloud can be [found here](cloud/lake-effect.md#subscriptions).  

Storage - [More Info on Storage](hpc/storage.md)    
:    **Project Storage** - request an allocation for this if you'd like a shared directory created for your group.  This shared directory is available to access from all CCR clusters, login nodes, compile nodes, and the Globus file transfer service.  It is not accessible from the cloud infrastructure.  CCR provides 1TB of storage for free to UB faculty groups.  Faculty can purchase additional storage by the TB annually.  
:   **Global Scratch** - The Panasas storage system serves global "scratch" directories for cluster users.  Groups must request an allocation and a shared directory will be created with a quota of 10TB.  Scratch file systems have different policies than other storage at CCR.  Please be sure to [view the scratch policy](/policies/misuse/#scratch-usage-policies) before using this resource.
:   **LakeEffect Cloud Storage** -  additional storage you can purchase for the Lake Effect research cloud if you require more than what is provided with the storage included with your subscription.  This is not accessible from the cluster resources, only from the Lake Effect Cloud resource.  

Portals    
:  WebMO - Chemistry software portal.  This is accessible to all academic users; however, it is only useful for a handful of Chemistry applications.  You must have an allocation to the "UB-HPC academic partitions" or a faculty cluster partition resource that is enabled in WebMO for this to work.  [More info on WebMO](portals/webmo.md)

UBVPN  
:  This is only for external collaborators and industry cluster customers and provides VPN access to the UB network to access CCR services.  Only request an allocation for this if you've been advised by CCR staff to do so.  

**Software Licenses**  
If access to a software license is not universally available, your group will need an allocation to access it.  When requesting the allocation, you will need to agree to the terms of the license and/or the terms of access presented as part of the allocation request process.   If you read the info provided and find you do not qualify for access to that license or you do do not want to agree to the End User License Agreement (EULA), you can cancel out of the request process by clicking the "back to project" button.  **The faculty member (PI) requesting the allocation is agreeing to the EULA for everyone in the group!**  Please make sure to provide any license restrictions to your group members so they are aware of them and do not violated the license agreement or CCR access policies.

These are some examples of software available on CCR's systems that require an allocation:
:   Abaqus
:   Ansys
:   CASTEP
:   Cafemol
:   Chimera & ChimeraX
:   Columbus
:   Comsol
:   CPLEX
:   FSL Tools
:   Gaussian
:   LS-DYNA
:   OneTick
:   orca
:   StarCCM
:   Starfish
:   TCAD
:   usearch 64-bit (32-bit license is available to all academic users)

**Private resources including faculty cluster partitions and research lab servers:**  
Some resources are restricted to specific groups so you will not see them unless you own the equipment or the owner has granted you permission to request allocations for that resource.  If you're looking for a resource that you don't see on your drop down list or there's a problem with the item on the list, please [contact CCR Help](help.md).
